---
title: Example 
draft: false
tags: bitcoin, defi
date: 19/04/2024
- 
--- 

- Use of smart contracts to Bitcoin in order to unlock Bitcoin DeFi. However, bitcoin faces the blockchain trilemma challenges. 
	- Bitcoin's issue = composability and it's limited scripting language 
	- L1 like Stacks is unleashing Bitcoin through Clarity (a new programming language for Bitcoin)
	- Bitcoin's security is high but it comes at the cost of programmability 
- Bitcoin ordinals seen as a first breakthrough for Bitcoin application tier and could help move narrative from a pure "store of value" to something more utilitarian. 

Transaction per second is a vanity metric without respect to application demands, function and security. -> scalability is not tested 

Bitcoin smart contracts exists on Bitcoin Layers, separate blockchains or execution environments that leverage Bitcoin's security and latent capital. 
- Stacks uses Proof of Transfer to connect two blockchains - Bitcoin and Stacks. 
- All Stacks transactions settle on the Bitcoin blockchain, which means that Stacks network benefits from Bitcoin's decentralization and security. 

**Bitcoin Layers**
Bitcoin dependence, settlement and extended functionality. 

Loose categories 
1. *Chains* - Sidechains and independent blockchains use different consensus mechanisms than Bitcoin's Proof of Work but ultimately settle or connect to the main Bitcoin chain. 
	- E.g. Stacks
2. *Offchain Networks* - State channels and networks where data is stored/updated off-chain, then settled back to the Bitcoin main chain
	- Lightning Network
3. *Rollups* - rollup processes transactions off the Bitcoin chain and then port that transaction data in batches back to the Bitcoin chain. All Bitcoin rollups still in active development.
	- BitVM*
4. *Protocols* - Bitcoin projects that center on changes to the core protocol itself or innovations on how to use data from the core protocol. These can be popular BIPs as well as metaprotocols. 
	- Ordinals (live), [[brc-20]]

Moving BTC to a bitcoin layer requires a bridge. Using a bridge involves trade-offs between performance (how well they work) and trust (how they custody the BTC deposited into the bridge).  

- [[runes]] (New BRC-20 Alternative)

as of week of ***25/04/2024***, ZK proofs submitted to bitcoin for verification of commitments to provide enhanced support to the Bitcoin network. takes at least 6 months for challengers to present fraud proofs on disputed matters. 


**Tokenized Bitcoin**
- sBTC which represents Bitcoin on the Stacks network. 
	- Design: User deposits BTC to a threshold signature wallet controlled by an open, decentralized network of validators, also known as signers. 
	- To be a validator in the Stacks network, signers must lock up a dynamic threshold of STX tokens in Stacks’ consensus mechanism (PoX) and run a software node that processes sBTC withdrawals (deposits are processed automatically by the protocol). In exchange for that work, validators earn BTC rewards generated by PoX.
	- The open membership of the sBTC peg is enabled by PoX, a consensus mechanism unique to Stacks. Rather than having a single custodian, sBTC is maintained by a public network that anyone can join.

**References:** 
- https://www.hiro.so/blog/bitcoin-ecosystem-an-overview-of-bitcoin-smart-contracts-and-how-they-work
- https://www.hiro.so/blog/bitcoin-economy-the-challenges-of-bitcoin-defi
- https://assets.hiro.so/DevelopersGuidetoBitcoinDeFi.pdf 
- https://docs.stacks.co/sbtc/introduction 